What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
An empty repository is created - this contains no commit.
It works that way so that it won't automatically include files you actually don't want to keep track of.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
Staging area is the preparation area for files to be committed.
Only files in this area are going to be included in the commit executed next time.
It helps to divide changes in the working directory into several commits,
each of which consists of a group of changes that represent a logical change to the intended files.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
Add files that are related to the first logical change you want to commit, stage all the files,
make a commit.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
When you want to try adding an experimental feature while keeping your software working without breaking.
To do so, keep your master branch clean of any untested changes,
instead make an experimental branch for any new feature that needs experimenting.
After the new functionality gets stable enough to go into the master branch,
you could merge the experimental branch into the master.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
With using git log --graph --oneline branch-name,
you can see how the whole branch structure was developed
and at which point each branch was actually created.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
All the commits in the second branch are merged into the first branch,
and the resulting merge commit becomes the new head of your current branch.
The diagram shown by git log --graph shows the merged commit has two parents,
which correspond to the prior heads of each merged branch.

What are the pros and cons of Git's automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
Pros:
Saves time
Makes you concentrate on the changes which actually contain conflicts

Cons:
tbd
